In the last lecture we've seen how we can embed an image inside that email content.
And in this one we'll learn how we can actually create proper attachments with some files that users
can then download.
So this is a valid use case in cases where for example you have an application that is selling tickets
to an events and you have some PDA files which contain a ticket and then you want to send that to the
user.
Or alternatively Another example is that you might have a tool that is doing something and then from
time to time you need to send some reports.
Let's say there are CSA file reports for the users to download them along with the e-mail.
So let's see a first example of how we can attach files to our emails.
So first example the simplest one would be to use the attach method.
You can see what are the expected attributes.
So it expects a file name and then optionally an array of options.
So here you will have to provide the full path of this file.
So currently we only have front line images for blog posts and profile avatars of the users.
So let's see how we can get one of those files.
So we are not using the storage facility from Lara villa here.
So to get proper path of a file will actually need to use this storage path.
This helper function will give us the full path to our up Public Storage folder.
So notice that I am just creating an example to actually upload an attachment to an email using the
attach method.
But normally you will use that if you for example do not use the storage mechanism of Lara.
You just want to.
Or you just have a full path to our specific file that you just want to send.
So now we are just trying to have the actual image being attached so the remaining part of the path
would be this comment then comment has a user user has an image and the image has that path attribute.
So now let's save the genders and actually see if this works.
So as we write some comment like Hi I'm liking this doesn't really matter.
Now press other comments so we can see if this file has been actually attached.
So that should be this email.
So this is our embedded image.
But now on the right you can see the attachments bottom and there is a file you can click and download.
This happens to be the profile image.
As I've said we are just showing the examples.
Doesn't really matter what we are sending here right now so that's the first way to attach something
but sometimes you might also need some additional options to be provided.
So this is the second parameter an array where you can specify a parameter called us.
So this will be providing what's the actual file name that the user will see in that attachment.
So here you can see that this name was out to generate it for the user.
So it doesn't really say much but in case you will be sending things like I said for example ticket.
So this file happens to have an j pick extension.
So let's say profile picture JPEG and additionally you can specify the mime attribute which would be
the mind type of the file.
So this is the image JPEG.
So this works best if you for example are sending tickets so you can call that file ticket PDA.
So users will know what is inside the attachment or something like report see his file.
So they will know that they wanted a report and they got it and they will immediately know what should
they download.
So first let's work with this example.
So write some comment again.
Hello.
Another comment.
Now let's refresh the inbox and see the attachments so you can see it up now.
The name is how we provided that.
So profile picture JPEG
so we actually won't need that inside the application so let's just comment that out first example with
full path
now since we are actually using the storage for seed inside our application there is another method
called attach from storage where we only have to specify that path of the fire.
And this would use the default disk by the way which in our case is the public disk.
So if you don't remember about disks you can go back to the lecture or just open the file system speech
B file where you can see all the disks that are configured.
So this is the different one public.
So now since we are actually using this default disk the path to this file would be this comment user
image path
now.
This also accepts a second parameter which would be the file name.
So instead of providing this using US option inside the options are right you can just specify it as
the second parameter.
So this would be profile picture JPEG.
And then additionally the first parameter of this method is an array of options which you can use it
as you see above.
So we can provide a MIME type and couple of other options which you can find inside the link of the
lot of documentation of what is actually possible.
So let's try out this example.
This should also work
attach from storage.
Now we should see this email very soon inside the mail drop.
It's almost immediately visible so you can see that this works.
And the comment is the same so we can see that this worked.
Also this time.
Now let's also comment that out
Additionally when you are using multiple disks you can use a touch from storage disk.
This is essentially the same as attach from storage.
But this time you specify from which disk you would like to attach something.
So we can also use public because actually this image is stored using the public disk.
Otherwise this would just not be found.
Now let's also comment about this example because we also don't need that for our application and let's
see another way of sending files this time.
We want to be attaching a file that exists somewhere on the disk you will see how to attach our data
so you will basically let's say you have the file already inside the memory and a good use case is when
for example someone uploads a file and then you wants to immediately send this file in an email to someone
else.
For example you have an application which accepts some documents or reports that have to be uploaded
at the end of work.
Let's say at the end of the day and immediately after processing and maybe storing them you would like
to email them to the boss let's say so here attach data accepts our data as the first parameter which
actually has to be the contents of the file that will be attached.
So to have a working example we can use the storage for seed which minded that you have to import.
That's the proper namespace.
And the storage for it has the get method so I am just showing this to you so you will know how to actually
read a file using storage
now.
Storage shed will read the contents of the file but then probably the good idea is to provide the file
name.
And actually this is our required parameter.
So let's say profile picture from data JPEG.
So mind I am just giving this name as an example and then Optionally you can also specify an array of
options which can be the MIME type image JPEG but obviously this is perfect use case when as I've said
you have something inside the memory you then do not want to read that again from the disk or when someone
have just uploaded something and then you need to send out using an email.
So let's see if this will also work.
So let's add a comment on attachment from the data other comment and we should see data very soon inside
our inbox a refreshed at let us see the attachment list and there it is profile picture from the data.
Let's even open that to make sure that this actually had the contents of the file and obviously it did.
So those are the ways you can use to attach something.
Let's also finally comment that out.
So you see that you can attach the raw data.
If you happen to have it or you have some uploaded file that was just uploaded you need to send it somewhere.
You can read the files using the storage for site or you can read files using the full path of the file
which you happen to have for example.
And then additionally you can specify options like the file name that should be given to the attachment
and the mind type which would specify what is the type of the content which is being attached.